
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880911-0016 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-09-11-88 0423EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>r i BC-HurricaneGilbert     09-11 0339</FIRST>
<SECOND>BC-Hurricane Gilbert,0348</SECOND>
<HEAD>Hurricane Gilbert Heads Toward Dominican Coast</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RUDDY GONZALEZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>


Turkey stepped up pressure on Italy for the extradition of captured
Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, saying Sunday that granting
him asylum would amount to ``opening doors to terrorism.'' Kurds in
Italy, Germany, Austria and Romania launched protests and hunger strikes
in fervent shows of solidarity with the rebel leader. Kurds came to
Rome by bus and car from across Western Europe for a 1,500-strong
protest outside the military hospital where Ocalan is believed held
under tight security. If Italy sends Ocalan back to Turkey, ``he'll
be tortured for certain,'' said Dino Frisullo, an Italian supporter
among the singing, chanting Kurds outside the military hospital. ``And
very possibly he'll be killed.'' Ocalan was arrested Thursday at the
Rome airport as soon as he stepped off a plane from Moscow, where
he had sought asylum after fleeing his hideout in Syria. He leads
the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party, PKK, which has been fighting
for Kurdish autonomy in southeastern Turkey since 1984. The conflict
has killed nearly 37,000 people. To Turkey, Ocalan is the nation's
most-wanted criminal. ``If Western European nations open their arms
(to the rebels) they will be taking on this great terrorism problem,''
Deputy Premier Bulent Ecevit told reporters in Ankara. ``If Italy
continues to show the tolerance it showed yesterday, it will be opening
its doors to terrorism,'' Ecevit added, referring to Italy's handling
of brawls that broke out during the first day of protests Saturday
outside the Rome military hospital. The protest in Rome was peaceful
Sunday. Elsewhere in Europe, dozens of Kurds protested in Bucharest
until chased away by police; 1,000 Kurds rallied in Bonn, some waving
pictures of the Kurd leader; and 100 Kurds in Vienna set up tents
outside Parliament and declared a hunger strike. In Turkey, four Kurdish
prison inmates were in critical condition after setting themselves
on fire to protest Ocalan's arrest, the independent Human Rights Association
said. Ocalan faces the death penalty in Turkey, a fact that has heightened
opposition in Italy to his extradition. Although there have been no
executions in Turkey since 1984, Italy has consistently refused to
extradite anyone if there were even a risk of capital punishment.
Foreign Minister Ismail Cem left for Rome on Sunday to attend a meeting
of European defense and foreign ministers, saying he would tell Italian
Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini that ``we expect a serious and fair
approach.'' He criticized an Italian Justice Ministry official, who
reportedly said Italy would deny Turkey's extradition request. ``To
announce the results of an extradition trial that has not yet even
begun does not go hand in hand with justice,'' Cem told reporters
before departing. Turkish Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin indicated
to reporters in Rome that Italian companies could be shut out of Turkey's
billions of dollars of defense contracts if it fails to turn over
the Kurd. In Italy, Dini told reporters in the city of Trento that
the government would decide Ocalan's request for asylum in a ``clear
and responsible manner.'' It was up for the courts to decide Turkey's
extradition request, as well as an expected one from Germany, he said.
In Istanbul, Turkish inmates at a prison took an Italian prisoner
hostage to increase pressure for Ocalan's extradition. Metris prison
officials said the jail director was talking to the inmate captors.
Ocalan founded the Marxist-inspired PKK in 1978. He turned the group
toward armed struggle in 1984, finding wide support among poor Kurds
in the underdeveloped southeast. The Turkish army claims to have all
but wiped out the PKK within Turkey but the rebels have havens in
Iran, Syria, and Iraq and the fighting continues.






 MOSCOW (AP) _ The British Embassy in Moscow has received no
direct information about three Britons and a New Zealander
kidnapped in breakaway Chechnya nearly two weeks ago, an embassy
official said Wednesday.
       No ransom demands have been made for the hostages, said an
embassy spokeswoman, speaking on the customary condition of
anonymity.
       The hostages _ Britons Peter Kennedy, Darren Hickey, and Rudolf
Petschi, and New Zealand's Stanley Shaw _ were kidnapped on Oct. 3.
They were working for Granger Telecom, a British telephone company,
installing 300,000 telephone lines across Chechnya.
       Chechnya's security forces launched a 10-day crackdown last
week, seeking to capture rebel armed groups and possibly find leads
to the hostages.
       A particularly thorough search was being conducted in Chechnya's
mountainous regions, where hostages are usually held. No trace of
the Britons and the New Zealander have been found, Chechen
officials have said.
       Hostage-takings, usually for ransom, have become common in
Chechnya since the end of its two-year war for independence from
Russia in 1996.
       Since the beginning of 1998, 176 people have been kidnapped in
the North Caucasus region of Russia, including dozens of
foreigners, and 90 of them released, officials have said, according
to the Interfax news agency.
       Another high-profile hostage, Russian presidential envoy
Valentin Vlasov, who was kidnapped on May 1, remains missing.





TORONTO (AP) _ Hundreds of thousands of pieces of Swissair
Flight 111, representing 60 percent of the plane, have now been
retrieved from the ocean floor, but an explanation for the Sept. 2
crash remains far off, investigators said Tuesday.
       Benoit Bouchard, chairman of Canada's Transportation Safety
Board, predicted it would take longer than the normal 12 months to
complete a final report on the crash off the Nova Scotia coast that
killed all 229 people aboard the New York-to-Geneva flight.
       ``It's a very complicated and complex investigation,'' Bouchard
said. ``But I remain optimistic that we will identify any safety
deficiencies that may exist.''
       As of two weeks ago, only 10 percent of the wrecked MD-11 jet
had been recovered. Then a barge equipped with an underwater crane
was brought in to scoop up large pieces of the plane.
       Vic Gerden, the chief crash investigator, said the operation was
a success, retrieving all three of the engines, parts of the
fuselage and cockpit, as well as electronic circuit boards and
bundles of wiring that will be examined for possible clues into the
source of smoke that the pilots detected 16 minutes before the
crash.
       Some debris from the cockpit area shows signs of extreme heat,
but investigators have yet to establish any details about the cause
or extent of a possible fire on board.
       ``We're really just now at the stage where we have quite a bit
of aircraft to examine,'' Gerden said.
       He said investigators still don't know at what angle the plane
hit the water and hope that digital controls in the engines may
give an indication of the plane's speed at impact.
       The impact was so severe that all the victims' bodies were badly
fragmented, complicating the identification process.
       Dr. John Butt, Nova Scotia's chief medical examiner, joined
investigators at a news briefing in Halifax on Tuesday to report
that remains of 134 people have now been identified, mostly through
matching with DNA samples provided by relatives.
       He said 228 distinct DNA patterns have now been detected from
the remains, indicating remains from all but one of the people on
board has been found.
       Gerden said the heavy-lifting barge, the Sea Sorceress, has
completed its work, and will be replaced this week by a boat
normally used to drag up scallops. Its task will be to retrieve the
smaller debris that remains on the ocean floor, about 180 feet (55
meters) below the surface.
       Though the final report is probably more than a year away,
Bouchard said the safety board would issue provisional
recommendations at any point when investigators felt they had
detected a safety hazard,
       ``We will do everything we can to reduce risks associated with
flying,'' he said.






MANILA, Philippines (AP) _ President Joseph Estrada said
Saturday the financially troubled Philippine Airlines will resume
its international flights on Sunday by flying him to Singapore
where he will address the World Economic Forum.
       Debt-laden PAL reopened Wednesday with domestic flights after a
13-day shutdown caused by disagreements with its largest labor
union over a management recovery plan.
       Speaking over his weekly radio program, Estrada also said Cathay
Pacific and Northwest Airlines were interested in investing in the
national carrier.
       ``It's either of the two,'' he said.
       Earlier this week, Peter Foster, a regional manager of Cathay,
said the company would soon decide whether to invest in PAL.
       Foster said Cathay is ``taking a very close look'' at PAL but
declined to comment what they have found or what stake they are
considering.
       PAL officials say Singapore Airlines is also interested in a
possible investment.
       PAL, which has been unable to make payments on dlrs 2.1 billion
in debt, was devastated by a pilots' strike in June and by the
region's currency crisis, which reduced passenger numbers and
inflated costs.
       Estrada brokered an agreement between PAL majority owner and
chairman, Lucio Tan, and its largest union that led to the
reopening of the 57-year-old airline.
       Under the accord, workers will suspend their collective
bargaining agreement for 10 years in exchange for 20 percent
ownership of the airline.
       Leftist labor leaders say the agreement violates workers' rights
and called Estrada anti-union.
       The visit to Singapore would be Estrada's first foreign trip as
president.
       He will deliver the keynote address to the 7th East Asia
Economic Summit sponsored by the World Economic Forum on Tuesday.
       Estrada will also hold talks with Singapore Prime Minister Goh
Chok Tong, Singaporean business leaders and members of the Filipino
community.
       Estrada said he is scheduled to hold a ``getting-to-know-you''
meeting with Indonesian President B. J. Habibie on Tuesday on
Indonesia's Batam Island south of Singapore.
       Presidential spokesman Jerry Barican said the discussions
between the two leaders may include immigration and refugee
problems near the two countries' common borders, as well as fishing
and rights to other natural resources in the area.














RJR NABISCO, the US tobacco and food group which was subject to a Dollars
25bn leveraged buy-out in 1989, has posted full-year profits of Dollars 368m
after tax, compared with a net loss of Dollars 462m in 1990.
But the bulk of the improvement came from the company's successful debt
reduction programme, with net interest expenses for the year down to Dollars
2.11bn from Dollars 3bn. The group's 'business unit contribution' -
operating profits before the amortisation of trademarks and goodwill - rose
more modestly, from Dollars 3.43bn to Dollars 3.54bn, and in the final
quarter actually declined slightly to Dollars 904m from Dollars 928m.
During the past 12 months, the company has undertaken various refinancings
aimed at replacing debt either by equity or cheaper loan capital. The steady
improvement of the balance sheet since the buy-out has allowed RJR Nabisco
to shed its 'highly leveraged transaction' status, winning access to cheaper
bank finance. Yesterday, RJR shares gained Dollars  1/8 to Dollars 10 3/8 .
Domestic tobacco operations remained under competitive pressure, with lower
volumes and higher marketing costs outstripping the benefit of price
increases and favourable raw material costs. Net sales for the full year
rose 1 per cent, but business unit contribution fell 4 per cent.
The international tobacco side, however, fared much better, adding volume in
Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Net sales there increased by 19 per cent
in 1991, while business unit contribution was up by 21 per cent. Overall,
tobacco's business unit contribution for the year was static at Dollars
2.73bn.
On the food front, net sales for the year increased by 11 per cent to
Dollars 6.45bn, while business unit contribution totalled Dollars 920m,
against Dollars 802m. However, this is partially distorted by disposals and
by the contrasting consolidation of Latin American operations in 1991. The
company said that, after allowing for this, net sales rose 2 per cent and
business unit contribution was up 8 per cent.
The food side, said RJR, saw the benefit of lower commodity costs and
productivity gains, but this was offset in part by lower volumes.








THE foreign ministers of Vietnam and China gave assurances yesterday that
their dispute over the Spratly islands in the South China Sea would not
escalate into armed conflict, Reuter reports.
Nguyen Manh Cam, Vietnamese foreign minister, said in New Delhi that Vietnam
had repeated its demand that China stop prospecting for oil in what it
called Vietnamese territorial waters. The area for which China has signed a
drilling contract with a US company was on the continental shelf of Vietnam,
and Hanoi has asked China to cancel the contract, Mr Cam said.
But he added: 'We decided at our summit meeting that relations would not
come back to the period of the past 10 years.' Vietnam and China fought a
border war in 1979 and their navies clashed briefly over the Spratly Islands
in 1988.
In Bangkok, Qian Qichen, Chinese foreign minister, said the dispute would
not affect normalisation of ties between the two communist neighbours. 'In
our view, once the issue comes to peaceful negotiations, it is not difficult
to reach agreement, or at least it will not lead to confrontation,' Qian
said.
Cam said Vietnam had proposed that the dispute be resolved through a
regional effort by the six countries which have a total or partial claim on
the Spratlys - China, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan.
China's industrial production jumped 19 per cent in the first eight months
of 1992 compared with the same period last year, the Xinhua news agency
reported yesterday, AP-DJ reports from Beijing.
The State Statistical Bureau said that heavy industry output climbed 21.3
per cent from January to August and light industry 16.3 per cent to push
total industrial production to 1,792bn yuan (Pounds 165bn).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
