
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880911-0016 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-09-11-88 0423EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>r i BC-HurricaneGilbert     09-11 0339</FIRST>
<SECOND>BC-Hurricane Gilbert,0348</SECOND>
<HEAD>Hurricane Gilbert Heads Toward Dominican Coast</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RUDDY GONZALEZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Hurricane Gilbert swept
toward the Dominican Republic Sunday, and the Civil Defense alerted
its heavily populated south coast to prepare for high winds, heavy
rains and high seas.
   The storm was approaching from the southeast with sustained
winds of 75 mph gusting to 92 mph.
   ``There is no need for alarm,'' Civil Defense Director Eugenio
Cabral said in a television alert shortly before midnight Saturday.
   Cabral said residents of the province of Barahona should closely
follow Gilbert's movement. An estimated 100,000 people live in the
province, including 70,000 in the city of Barahona, about 125 miles
west of Santo Domingo.
   Tropical Storm Gilbert formed in the eastern Caribbean and
strengthened into a hurricane Saturday night. The National
Hurricane Center in Miami reported its position at 2 a.m. Sunday at
latitude 16.1 north, longitude 67.5 west, about 140 miles south of
Ponce, Puerto Rico, and 200 miles southeast of Santo Domingo.
   The National Weather Service in San Juan, Puerto Rico, said
Gilbert was moving westward at 15 mph with a ``broad area of
cloudiness and heavy weather'' rotating around the center of the
storm.
   The weather service issued a flash flood watch for Puerto Rico
and the Virgin Islands until at least 6 p.m. Sunday.
   Strong winds associated with the Gilbert brought coastal
flooding, strong southeast winds and up to 12 feet feet to Puerto
Rico's south coast. There were no reports of casualties.
   San Juan, on the north coast, had heavy rains and gusts
Saturday, but they subsided during the night.
   On Saturday, Hurricane Florence was downgraded to a tropical
storm and its remnants pushed inland from the U.S. Gulf Coast.
Residents returned home, happy to find little damage from 80 mph
winds and sheets of rain.
   Florence, the sixth named storm of the 1988 Atlantic storm
season, was the second hurricane. The first, Debby, reached minimal
hurricane strength briefly before hitting the Mexican coast last
month.




IT HAS been a month since the Zurich authorities drove drug addicts from the
notorious Platzspitz park in the heart of this otherwise tranquil city, but
city leaders are still feeling their way clumsily towards an effective
policy for dealing with their outsize drug problem.
Superficially, the Platzspitz closure has been a success. The hundreds of
addicts who converged on the park every day for drugs, free syringes and
needles have dispersed. The big underworld dealers who really frightened the
authorities have also vanished and the park itself is fenced shut and
deserted.
The police claim that the drug-related death rate in the city in January and
February has tumbled to one from 13 in the same period of last year. The
crime rate has halved in the central districts of the city, but only thanks
to a massive and controversial police presence. Drug prices have soared.
According to Mr Josef Gatzi, deputy chief of the police drug squad, heroin
on the street has jumped from SFr50 (Dollars 33.50) to SFr200 per gram.
The closure of the park came as the city's socialist-green government
finally acknowledged that its decade-long experiment in liberal treatment of
drug addicts had been a failure.
The idea had been that by concentrating the addicts in one place, medical
treatment, counselling and other services could be provided.
But the concentration also attracted big-time dealers and led to soaring
crime rates in central Zurich. Local businessmen eventually became impatient
and demanded that Platzspitz be closed.
It has become apparent in the past few days that the city was also under
fire from the country's powerful banking establishment. Two senior bankers,
speaking at press conferences, have claimed that Platzspitz has been one of
the factors contributing to the widening view abroad that Switzerland is no
longer the stable, well run country it used to be.
When the park closed, the authorities set up a plan for dispersing the
addicts. Those who came from other parts of Switzerland - and they were the
majority - were to be sent home. Those from Zurich were sent to one of
several small shelters established around the city.
That plan seems to have worked well, with only minimal complaints from
residents in the districts where the shelters are located.
However, the shelters are open only at night. Ideas for dealing with the
addicts during the day were more sketchy, with no clear programme or
additional facilities for counselling and rehabilitation.
For example, a bus to dispense methadone was promised by the cantonal
government, but its approval continues to be delayed. The result is that
many addicts have simply moved from Platzspitz to an adjacent run-down
neighbourhood, known as Kreis 5, to try and re-establish a trading centre.
'We are very pleased that Platzspitz has been closed, but it is obvious the
city was not sufficiently prepared about what to do afterwards,' said Mr
Hans Georg Luchinger, president of the Zurich Shopkeepers' Association.
The police have moved into Kreis 5 in force, constantly trying to disperse
the addicts. There have been complaints of excessive harassment, including
confiscation of needles and small amounts of drugs, contrary to official
policy. Addicts staged a protest demonstration in front of city hall two
weeks ago.
All this is straining the political alliance that agreed on closing
Platzspitz. Ms Emilie Lieberherr, the socialist head of the city's social
affairs department and a member of its three-person drug committee, last
week tried to distance herself from what she considers an unnecessarily
brutal implementation of the new policy. 'This situation is bad for the
addicts and bad for the people of Kreis 5,' she said.
Mr Robert Neukomm, head of the police department and another member of the
drug committee, claims that his forces have been instructed not to take away
needles from the addicts.
Ms Lieberherr also complains about the inadequacy of treatment programmes.
She argues that heroin should be provided under medical supervision to the
150 serious addicts in the country, but the federal government is resisting.
Mr Neukomm says that rehabilitation programmes are improving. Addicts are
more inclined to seek help now that the magnet of Platzspitz is no longer
there, he says.




INTERNATIONAL tourists are discovering New Zealand in ever-larger numbers,
helped in part by the increase in air services to the country and by strong
promotions in Germany, Japan, Britain and the US.
Tourism New Zealand, the body charged with promoting the country abroad, has
invested NZDollars 60m over the past 18 months and the industry is in a
highly confident mood.
In 1992, tourist numbers grew by 9.6 per cent to 1.05m, the first time they
had passed the one million mark. The growth has continued this year with
arrivals running 10.2 per cent, ahead of last year in the January - April
period. The tourism board aims for 3m arrivals by the year 2000.
New Zealand now earns more than NZDollars 3bn a year from tourism, making it
the country's single biggest export earner, and the Tourism Board says it
should be earning NZDollars 9bn by the year 2000.
The board chief executive, Ian Kean, says the growth in numbers will be
carefully handled, especially in terms of the environment.
'The fresh, uncrowded, unspoiled nature of New Zealand is one of our main
attractions - and we'll keep it that way.
'We offer a contemporary society with sophisticated cities, superb food and
wine, a unique Maori culture, and physical and natural attractions which
visitors say are unequalled anywhere in the world.'
The industry sees its greatest growth potential as being part of the Asian
Pacific region. Growing disposable income is seeing a sharp rise in visitor
numbers, although they are still well below those from more traditional
areas such as Australia, the US and Britain.
Recession in the US led to a 5 per cent drop in tourist numbers in the year
to March to 169,519, and Australian visitor numbers were also down 1 per
cent to 341,098. However, main promotions in Germany saw a 40 per cent lift
in holidaymakers to 43,356, and they stayed for an average 30 days, longer
than most other nationalities.
The number of British visitors rose by 22 per cent last year to 120,227, and
they stayed the longest of any nationality, an average 33 days. However,
this percentage is boosted by the number of UK residents making extended
visits to stay with family or friends.
Most European visitors prefer to rent a car and go where the mood takes
them, stopping at hotels or motels in the many small towns that take their
fancy. So do Chinese visitors from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore. Large
numbers of Chinese settlers have lived in New Zealand from the goldmining
days of the 1860s.
Younger Japanese tourists are following the self-drive trend, although due
to language difficulties their older compatriots tend to travel in groups by
coach or airline. Rapidly developing airlinks, mainly pioneered by Air New
Zealand, with Korea, Japan, Indonesia, Thailand, Taiwan and Singapore, have
led to a sharp rise in visitor numbers from all those countries.
In the year to March the number of visitors from Taiwan rose by 46 per cent
to a total of 91,387, There was also a 79 per cent increase in numbers from
Singapore, and a 96 per cent rise from Korea.
As Asian tourist numbers climb, so does their ownership of hotels.
Singaporean and Hong Kong companies have bought many of the country's top
hotels over the past three years.






      NEW YORK (AP) _ Smokers on the go are always a step ahead in
plotting when and where they can get that next nicotine fix.
      On a day-trip with the kids in the back of the car and a wife
with an attitude about second-hand smoke, they finesse with
frequent pit stops blamed on the bladder.
      But deep dread sets in when boarding a U.S. airliner and some
foreign carriers, knowing there is no finesse.
      That's a given. But what is less defined are the anti-smoking
laws in the countries you plan to visit. They vary greatly and
often are winked at.
      Authorities in Singapore are determined to make the city-state
the world's first smoke-free nation. To that end, smokers can be
slapped with a dlrs 600 fine just for lighting up while waiting in
line for a bus or taxi.
      On the other hand, smokers in Japan are allowed for the most
part to light up when and where they please. Could that be because
the powerful Ministry of Finance owns two-thirds of the stock in
Japan Tobacco, which controls nearly 80 percent of the cigarette
market?
      There's also a smoker-friendly atmosphere in Egypt, where the
government owns the country's biggest cigarette company.
      A reporter who was covering Israel's Knesset (parliament) when
it passed a law banning smoking in elevators, among other public
places, recalls riding an elevator with the minister of police,
Haim Bar-Lev, holding a lighted cigar.
      ``How can you smoke in the elevator?'' the reporter asked.
``Shouldn't you be setting an example of compliance with the new
law?''
      Haim Bar-Lev smiled and replied: ``The law says I mustn't smoke
in the elevator. It doesn't say I mustn't hold my cigar in the
elevator.'' He later died of cancer while ambassador in Moscow.
      A newswoman in a small restaurant in San Juan, Puerto Rico, was
sitting beneath a ``No Fumar'' sign. She asked the waiter if there
was someplace else she could smoke.
      ``The waiter promptly lifted the sign off the wall and urged me
to go ahead and smoke,'' she says. ``There weren't any other
customers, so I did.''
      In Montreal, once a smokers' haven, there's a move afoot to
restrict smoking in restaurants and most public places. That
bothers Frank Valente, a restaurateur who fears business will
suffer.
      ``The nonsmoker will have a coffee,'' he says, ``The smoker will
have three cognacs and two coffees, then he'll have a bottle of
wine with dinner.''
      For the benefit of smokers _ and nonsmokers _ who travel, we
asked AP correspondents around the globe to summarize the smoking
laws where they are stationed. This is their report, with the
countries in alphabetical order:
      AUSTRALIA: Even pubs are succumbing to creeping anti-smoke
sentiment, with bar workers' unions in Sydney suggesting that
employers should be legally liable if workers end up with lung
disease. Smoking is outlawed in most public places and offices, and
the heaps of butts at back doors and loading docks indicate
compliance.
      BELGIUM: Enter a restaurant in Brussels and one question you
will never hear is: ``Smoking or nonsmoking?'' Belgian law bans or
curbs smoking in public places, but enforcement is sloppy,
violations rampant. Belgians are simply not bothered by
anti-smoking rules, and complaints from nonsmokers are often
treated with disdain.
      BRAZIL: A recent ban on smoking in public buildings and on short
flights is widely ignored. Smokers routinely light up in shopping
malls and waiting rooms, and the ``No Smoking'' section in planes
often exists only in theory. Cigarette ads on TV must carry a
health warning, but often it's no more than ``Avoid smoking around
small children.'' Brazil is a major producer and exporter of
tobacco.
      CANADA: Toronto tried to become Canada's first city to ban
smoking in bars and restaurants but backed down last year in the
face of widespread defiance. In smoker-friendly Montreal,
provincial legislation in the works would outlaw smoking in most
public places and require restaurants to allocate at least 60
percent of their seats to nonsmokers.
      CHINA: With 320 million smokers, smoking is the closest thing
China has to a national pastime. Lighting up in the Forbidden City,
on a subway train, or other very public places can risk a small
fine, perhaps 60 cents to dlrs 1.20 (5 to 10 yuan), but generally
the 1996 ban on smoking in public places is ignored.
      DENMARK: Although smoking is banned in hospitals, public
transportation and shops, Danes can still have a puff in Copenhagen
cafes and restaurants so long as they don't bother others. Most
offices have a smoking room and, if colleagues don't mind, smokers
can light up at their desks.
      EGYPT: Smokers puff away almost anywhere: on buses, in
elevators, next to ``No Smoking'' signs. The government regularly
announces anti-smoking drives, but it owns the biggest cigarette
company, too. Its newest brand, Toshka, is named for a vast
government plan to turn Egypt's desert into farmland _ perhaps for
growing tobacco?
      FRANCE: Smoke-filled cafes are still pretty much the norm. But
thanks to a 1991 law, the haze is starting to clear. Smoking is
prohibited in subways, trains, airplanes, hospitals and public
places. Though some still light up in those places, it's happening
less and less. Officials at the National Committee Against Smoking
say the biggest headache remains the workplace, where it's up to
the boss to enforce the law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
