
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880911-0016 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-09-11-88 0423EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>r i BC-HurricaneGilbert     09-11 0339</FIRST>
<SECOND>BC-Hurricane Gilbert,0348</SECOND>
<HEAD>Hurricane Gilbert Heads Toward Dominican Coast</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RUDDY GONZALEZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>



MANILA, Philippines (AP) _ Prospective investor Cathay Pacific
Airways wants the number of employees at troubled Philippine
Airlines to be slashed from more than 8,000 to 5,000 but PAL has
not yet agreed, Finance Secretary Edgardo Espiritu said Monday.
      PAL officials have accepted an investment offer from the Hong
Kong-based carrier and the two companies are drawing up a
comprehensive plan to rehabilitate PAL.
      PAL's chairman and chief stockholder, Lucio Tan, wants to retain
about 8,000 employees to avoid antagonizing the airline's labor
unions, Espiritu said.
      ``That is the point of disagreement now because Cathay wants a
larger retrenchment,'' Espiritu told reporters.
      Cathay Pacific officials were not immediately available for
comment.
      Espiritu said Cathay Pacific may invest as much as dlrs 100
million in PAL but other foreign investors, including the
International Finance Corp., the World Bank's investment arm, are
interested in investing part of that amount.
      PAL closed for nearly two weeks on Sept. 23 after failing to
persuade its largest union to accept a management-proposed recovery
plan under which its collective bargaining agreement would be
suspended for 10 years in exchange for a 20 percent share of the
company's stock.
      The union later decided to accept the plan, allowing PAL to
resume domestic flights on Oct. 7 and international flights later.
As part of the plan, the union agreed to allow an unspecified
number of workers to be retrenched as long as the laid-off workers
get separation benefits agreed by both sides.
      In June, PAL was embroiled in a crippling three-week pilots'
strike that brought the company close to financial ruin. At the
height of the strike, PAL laid off 5,000 of its 13,000 workers to
minimize its losses.
      PAL says it is unable to make payments on dlrs 2.1 billion of
debt due to mounting losses worsened by its labor problems and
Asia's currency crisis.



TWO portraits, one by Reynolds, the other by Gainsborough, which had been
stolen from the Great Hall at Lincoln's Inn in London in 1990, were
recovered this week when they were brought into Sotheby's for evaluation.
They had been bought at the Bermondsey market in London for Pounds 145 for
the two, and the new owner, who had no idea of their provenance, carried the
two canvases to the auction house in a plastic bin liner.
Ms Lucy Hodson, of Sotheby's British pictures department, was called down to
the front desk to examine the paintings and immediately recognised them as
the work of Reynolds and Gainsborough.
She checked with the Art Loss Register and discovered they were the missing
paintings.
'I could not believe my eyes when this man pulled these two paintings from
the bin bag,' she said. 'Both of them had been taken from their frames when
they were stolen and the Gainsborough was rolled up. The Reynolds is smaller
and was still on its stretcher but I recognised them straight away.'
A portrait of William Pitt the Younger by Gainsborough, which was also
stolen in the raid, has yet to be recovered.







PRIMARY school teachers yesterday overwhelmingly rejected a boycott of
standard assessment tests for seven-year-olds in a ballot conducted by the
National Union of Teachers.
The result removes the threat of widespread disruption in primary schools
after a ballot was proposed at the NUT conference in Scarborough last month.
Standard assessment tasks (SATs) are already in progress in schools. Only
968 primary school teachers voted for a boycott, with 6,939 (88 per cent)
against. The response was about 65 per cent.
A separate ballot of all NUT members showed 86 per cent of those voting to
be in favour of a national campaign against testing (44,623 to 7,310).
However, only 27 per cent of NUT members voted, and the campaign is to be
limited to lobbying parents, head teachers and school governors, and will
not include industrial action.
Mr Doug McAvoy, NUT general secretary, said: 'The decision not to boycott
tests this year should not be taken as indicating any weakening in our
resolve to achieve the abolition of these tests.'
Mr Kenneth Clarke, education secretary, welcomed the ballot result, and
said: 'As I have made clear, we will look closely at the experience of
administering the tests this year to see whether they need to be made
simpler.'
The vote by the NUT, the largest teachers' union in England and Wales,
clears the way for legislation covering the government's proposed review
body for teachers' pay, currently before the House of Commons.
Mr Clarke has made establishment of the body conditional upon teaching
unions not taking strike action. None of the five other teaching unions has
expressed support for a boycott of testing.








THE candidates that the parties are fielding in the constituencies they
think they will win reveals much about each party, its values and the
interests it represents.
Mr Neil Kinnock, troubled in the early 1980s by leftwing activists choosing
candidates in their own image, was strong enough by 1987 to change Labour's
selection rules. He introduced one member, one vote, mobilising the local
membership to neutralise activists.
The effect has been to reduce significantly the number of leftwingers
getting through the net; no rightwing MPs have been deselected, whereas of
14 MPs dropped between 1981 and 1985 most were from the party's moderate
wing.
The new process has, however, greatly localised candidate selection,
favouring aspirants known to the widened local electorate. Hence the
selection of prominent local-government leaders: in the 28 seats where
Labour MPs announced their retirement between 1987 and 1992, at least 10
selected local worthies of this sort.
Retention in the selection process of 40 per cent of the votes for unions
has added to this localising trend, with the unions securing seats for their
own, often local, officials.
Long gone are the days when Labour could parachute into its safe seats
London-based dons, barristers and journalists. The party's heartland is
increasingly occupied by non-metropolitan party and union apparatchiks.
The pattern in Conservative seats is similar in one respect and different in
another. A number of potential Tory MPs are also likely to be drawn from the
ranks of full-time politicians and party insiders, but the vast majority of
the 60 candidates chosen to replace retiring MPs are London-based
professionals. If local Conservative associations have a reputation for
autonomy, they still show signs of favouring metropolitan professionals over
locals.
There are also contrasts between the political characteristics of the new
candidates, with Labour moving away from the left but the Conservatives
remaining on the right.
The great majority of new Labour MPs will be soft-left Kinnockites. In a
likely new intake of about 100 MPs (assuming a Commons in which both parties
have about 300 seats), fewer than a dozen will have hard-left histories,
from which most of them appear to have mellowed.
A Kinnockite parliamentary Labour party (PLP) will, however, face a
Conservative party reduced in size but not in fervour. In place of MPs
defeated in marginal seats - many of whom are staunch Thatcherites - the
party will have a significant infusion of new Thatcherite blood in safe
seats where MPs have retired.
In occupational terms, superficially the parties have long been on
convergent paths, to the extent of Labour becoming more 'white-collar'.
Conservative MPs have traditionally been drawn from business and
professional backgrounds in equal proportions. Labour, on the other hand,
had a large minority of manual workers, comprising in 1951 almost two-fifths
of the PLP. After the election the proportion is likely to be reduced to
about 20 per cent.
The proportion of Labour MPs with business backgrounds has always been very
low and is set to fall below 5 per cent. In place of these categories is
Labour's expanded 'middle-class' base but it is drawn almost exclusively
from the public sector, notably teaching and local administration. In
contrast the Conservative middle-class MP is a private-sector professional -
most typically a lawyer. Additionally, a significantly expanding proportion
of Labour's white-collar MPs are party and union officials.
In educational terms, while Labour has an increased number of graduate MPs
and candidates, the Conservatives have fewer MPs with a
public-school-and-Oxbridge pedigree.
In 1974 50 per cent of all Conservative MPs were of such an educational  -
and, by implication, social - background. After the election, in a
Conservative party reduced to 300 seats, the proportion will have fallen to
nearer one third.
It was said that as Mrs Thatcher rose, so the social status of the party
declined. The total of Conservative Etonians is set to fall to an all-time
low of 30 MPs (10 per cent of the total compared with 25 per cent in 1951).
Some advance has been made in the representation of women. The Conservatives
have - surprisingly, given the party's reputation for female activists who
will not choose women as candidates - picked women for six safe seats. But
with defeats expected for MPs of the last parliament such as Mrs Lynda
Chalker, the overseas development minister, the party is unlikely to end up
with many more women MPs.
Labour has, with the help of mandatory shortlisting of women, put women into
a quarter of the 100 key marginals and is likely see its number of women MPs
rise from 24 to 40 in a 300-strong PLP.
Neither party has done much for aspirants who are black or of Asian origin,
even if the Conservatives have selected two for the Tory-held seats of
Cheltenham and Brentford and Isleworth. Given the level of prejudice about
black candidates, the difficulty for the Conservatives is the lack of
Tory-held seats with a significant proportion of black and Asian voters.
Labour has far more seats with ethnic-minority electorates, and four of them
elected black candidates in 1987. The problem for aspiring black Labour
candidates is that most of the remaining seats with high proportions of
ethnic-minority voters are already occupied by high-profile white incumbents
such as Mr Roy Hattersley, Ms Clare Short and Ms Joan Ruddock.
In a party where the women's lobby is well-organised, deselection of one of
the few women MPs is unthinkable. Thus one minority serves to hold back
another.
Labour's teachers and lecturers, local administrators and union officials
confirm it as the party of public-sector defence. The growing number of
party and union organisers, however, also implies a party of power-seeking
professionals and arguably one of pragmatists.
The Tories, while retaining a mix of business and the professions, will also
include more power-focused party functionaries. Ideologically, with an
influx of rightwingers, they would be well-prepared for a populist assault
on a weak Labour government facing considerable political and economic
challenges.
The writer is senior lecturer in politics at Aberdeen University.




JERUSALEM (AP) _ A car bomb blew up Friday in a Jerusalem market
crowded with Israelis shopping for the Sabbath. The blast killed
two assailants, wounded 21 Israelis and prompted Israel to suspend
implementation of the peace accord with the Palestinians.
      The Islamic militant group Hamas, which has been trying to
sabotage the agreement, claimed responsibility for the 9:45 a.m.
(0745 gmt) attack in the Mahane Yehuda market.
      Palestinian officials condemned the attack, but accused Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of political blackmail for holding up
the agreement that was to give the Palestinians another 13 percent
of the West Bank by the end of January.
      In the attack, a red Fiat drove slowly toward the main
intersection at the market entrance, smoke coming out of the hood
and windows. ``People started to shout `car on fire,''' said Yair
Cohen, a bus company employee.
      Rahel Zaken, waiting in line at a bakery to buy Sabbath bread,
turned toward the street and got a glimpse of the driver. ``I saw
his eyes. He looked right at me,'' said Zaken, a 32-year-old
secretary. Seconds later, an explosion shook the area.
      ``I fell to the ground and stumbled over one of the beggars and
crawled away on my hands and legs,'' she said. She was hospitalized
after complainging of ringing in the ears.
      Others said they heard two explosions, followed by fast pops,
like the sound of firecrackers. Israel radio said two suitcases
filled with explosives were recovered near the car, suggesting the
blast went off prematurely and that the assailants had planned to
set off a more powerful explosion.
      Friday's bombing marked the third time in less than three weeks
that Hamas tried, but failed, to carry out an attack with large
numbers of Israeli casualties, suggesting that a recent crackdown
by Israel and the Palestinian Authority has produced results.
      A charred, dismembered corpse, covered by tires, lay several
meters (yards) away. Streams of soot-black water ran in the street.
Another bare-legged body lay in the street, face down, in a pool of
blood below the head. Rescue workers covered the body with sodden
pieces of cardboard box and plastic shopping bags.
      Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai said the two dead were the
assailants. Asked about Hamas' apparent difficulty to launch a
large-scale attack, he said: ``We can't depend on miracles.''
      The explosion turned the car into a mass of twisted metal, and a
large cloud of smoke engulfed the area.
      ``There was hysteria, people were running,'' said Eliad Duan, an
Israeli border policeman. Soldiers and police held back the crowds.
``It's dangerous _ stay back!'' they shouted.
      At police barricades set up along Jerusalem's busiest
thoroughfare, soldiers and police held back crowds of people, some
frantic about loved ones who had been shopping in the crowded
market only hours before the start of the Jewish Sabbath.
      ``Please, please, is there a girl with red hair who is hurt?''
an older, heavyset woman said tearfully, trying to push her way
past police. A young female soldier patted her arm consolingly.
      Two policemen led away an elderly woman who gripped a blue
plastic shopping bag filled with groceries.
      A small crowd of protesters shouted, ``Death to Arabs! Death to
Arafat!'' Police tried to grab one of them, but he escaped into the
crowd.
      Just a block away from Friday's blast, shoppers went about their
business. ``We can't stop with what we are doing when this
happens,'' one young female shopper said.
      In July 1997, two Islamic militants blew themselves up just a
few meters (yards) from the site of the latest explosion, killing
themselves and 16 shoppers.
      When Friday's blast rocked downtown Jerusalem, the Israeli
Cabinet had just gathered about a mile (kilometer) away, at
Netanyahu's office, to discuss the peace agreement under which
Israel is to withdraw from 13 percent of the West Bank in exchange
for a Palestinian campaign against Islamic militants.
      The agreement cannot be implemented until it is ratified by the
Cabinet. Netanyahu adviser David Bar-Illan said at the start of the
session that he had expected a vote later Friday.
      However, the session broke off when word of the attack reached
the ministers. The meeting was resumed shortly after noon, with
ministers deciding to suspend the ratification process.
      The Cabinet said in a statement will only reconvene after ``it
verifies that the Palestinian Authority takes vigorous steps for an
all-out war against terrorist organizations and their
infrastructure.''
      The chief Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat, condemned the
attack, but said Israel was playing into the hands of the militants
by suspending the peace process.
      He also said the Palestinians were doing all they could to stop
the violence. ``I wished that the Israeli government would not
point its finger at the Palestinian Authority,'' Erekat said.
      Bar-Illan said ratification was possible as early as next week
if the Palestinians take decisive steps against militants.
      The Cabinet also demanded clarifications from Palestinian leader
Yasser Arafat on the procedure for revoking clauses in the PLO
founding charter calling for Israel's destruction.
      The Wye River agreement refers to the procedure, but is vague
enough to allow different interpretations. It says the Palestine
National Council and other Palestinian organizations will meet in
mid-December to ``reaffirm'' a letter by Arafat to U.S. President
Bill Clinton in which the Palestinian leader spells out which
clauses are being annulled.
      The Palestinians dispute Israel's contention that the agreement
calls for the PNC to hold a vote on the clauses.
      The Cabinet also said it would act to strengthen Jerusalem as
Israel's capital. Israel radio initially said the ministers decided
to begin construction of the controversial Jewish neighborhood of
Har Homa in traditionally Arab east Jerusalem next. Bar-Illan said
construction would be authorized ``in the near future,'' but would
not give a date.






 MADRID, Spain (AP) _ The chief executive of the International
Monetary Fund said Wednesday there should be a slight improvement
in global economic fortunes next year spearheaded by Europe and the
United States.
      Michel Camdessus, IMF managing director, predicted world growth
of around 2.5 percent in 1999, creeping up from the recently
revised-down figure for this year of 2 percent.
      Camdessus was in the Spanish capital to attend the fourth
meeting of the so-called Montevideo Circle, an informal gathering
of top ranking politicians and officials who annually hold a
behind-closed-door brainstorming session on Latin American issues.
      The IMF chief told reporters that Europe and the United States _
``the two motors of the world economy'' _ were still going strong,
despite some slowdown in America and Great Britain.
      He said Asia should be able to keep its economic head just above
water, avoiding negative growth next year.
      Camdessus said the immediate task was to ensure that Latin
America weathered the financial storm that began in Thailand 15
months ago before spreading from Asia to precipitate Russia's
recent collapse.
      ``It is a vital obligation to prevent the Latin domino from
falling,'' Camdessus said, praising Spain's recent offer to help
fund emergency credits to the region under threat from investor
flight.
      He said he hoped other European countries with business
interests in Latin America _ such as Italy, France and Germany _
would follow the Spanish example.
      The IMF and the Brazilian government are putting the final
touches to an emergency three-year-package that should be ratified
within weeks, Camdessus said. The package has been estimated to
total dlrs 30 billion.
      ``Brazil will not collapse,'' he said, adding that Argentina and
Chile were among the keenest to see the IMF reach agreement with
their giant neighbor.
      Less upbeat about Russia, Camdessus said the Fund was still
working toward a financing package, but that the government still
lacked a program. This, he said, would take time, and appealed to
governments to provide humanitarian aid in the interim.
      The IMF has put together bailout packages totaling over $100
billion during what Camdessus called ``the most uncertain year
ever.''
      He said the crisis has underlined the need for prevention, and
the transformation of the Fund's primary role away from that of
``the firefighter who arrives when the fire is already burning.''
      Greater private sector involvement in the prevention and
resolution of future economic crisis would help, Camdessus said.
``Now, the private sector tends to run away and leave the work to
the governments,'' he said.
      Camdessus also said he was aware of recent criticism of
excessive IMF secrecy, but he said his own efforts to open up the
Fund have been blocked by governments demanding discretion.
      Camdessus said that those who viewed the crisis as a critique of
the Fund's promotion of world economic liberalization were
mistaken. The man who has headed the IMF for 12 years said that it
simply demonstrated the need to carry through liberalization
programs properly.







INTERNATIONAL tourists are discovering New Zealand in ever-larger numbers,
helped in part by the increase in air services to the country and by strong
promotions in Germany, Japan, Britain and the US.
Tourism New Zealand, the body charged with promoting the country abroad, has
invested NZDollars 60m over the past 18 months and the industry is in a
highly confident mood.
In 1992, tourist numbers grew by 9.6 per cent to 1.05m, the first time they
had passed the one million mark. The growth has continued this year with
arrivals running 10.2 per cent, ahead of last year in the January - April
period. The tourism board aims for 3m arrivals by the year 2000.
New Zealand now earns more than NZDollars 3bn a year from tourism, making it
the country's single biggest export earner, and the Tourism Board says it
should be earning NZDollars 9bn by the year 2000.
The board chief executive, Ian Kean, says the growth in numbers will be
carefully handled, especially in terms of the environment.
'The fresh, uncrowded, unspoiled nature of New Zealand is one of our main
attractions - and we'll keep it that way.
'We offer a contemporary society with sophisticated cities, superb food and
wine, a unique Maori culture, and physical and natural attractions which
visitors say are unequalled anywhere in the world.'
The industry sees its greatest growth potential as being part of the Asian
Pacific region. Growing disposable income is seeing a sharp rise in visitor
numbers, although they are still well below those from more traditional
areas such as Australia, the US and Britain.
Recession in the US led to a 5 per cent drop in tourist numbers in the year
to March to 169,519, and Australian visitor numbers were also down 1 per
cent to 341,098. However, main promotions in Germany saw a 40 per cent lift
in holidaymakers to 43,356, and they stayed for an average 30 days, longer
than most other nationalities.
The number of British visitors rose by 22 per cent last year to 120,227, and
they stayed the longest of any nationality, an average 33 days. However,
this percentage is boosted by the number of UK residents making extended
visits to stay with family or friends.
Most European visitors prefer to rent a car and go where the mood takes
them, stopping at hotels or motels in the many small towns that take their
fancy. So do Chinese visitors from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore. Large
numbers of Chinese settlers have lived in New Zealand from the goldmining
days of the 1860s.
Younger Japanese tourists are following the self-drive trend, although due
to language difficulties their older compatriots tend to travel in groups by
coach or airline. Rapidly developing airlinks, mainly pioneered by Air New
Zealand, with Korea, Japan, Indonesia, Thailand, Taiwan and Singapore, have
led to a sharp rise in visitor numbers from all those countries.
In the year to March the number of visitors from Taiwan rose by 46 per cent
to a total of 91,387, There was also a 79 per cent increase in numbers from
Singapore, and a 96 per cent rise from Korea.
As Asian tourist numbers climb, so does their ownership of hotels.
Singaporean and Hong Kong companies have bought many of the country's top
hotels over the past three years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
