
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880911-0016 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-09-11-88 0423EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>r i BC-HurricaneGilbert     09-11 0339</FIRST>
<SECOND>BC-Hurricane Gilbert,0348</SECOND>
<HEAD>Hurricane Gilbert Heads Toward Dominican Coast</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RUDDY GONZALEZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
Indonesian President B.J. Habibie finds attending a summit of Asia-Pacific
leaders ``difficult'' because of his concerns about the arrest of
Malaysia's former deputy prime minister, a Thai newspaper reported
Sunday. Asia-Pacific leaders are scheduled to meet next month in Malaysia
for an annual economics meeting. Last week, Philippine President Joseph
Estrada said he was considering not going to the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum because of Anwar Ibrahim's arrest. ``I'm very concerned
over how my friend Anwar Ibrahim has been treated,'' Habibie was quoted
as saying by the English-language newspaper The Nation. ``I'm concerned
because people should not forget that Anwar Ibrahim had contributed
a lot for the benefit of his country.'' Anwar is a charismatic politician
who was once picked to be the successor to Malaysia's long-serving
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad. But he was suddenly fired by Mahathir
on Sept. 2 after the two differed on economic policy. He then began
speaking out against Mahathir and was arrested Sept. 20. Anwar has
been accused of engaging in homosexual acts illegal under Malaysia
law, but the charges are generally seen as a pretext for his political
persecution. In a court appearance last week, Anwar's face was bruised
and he said he had been beaten by police, heightening international
attention to his case. ``Because of human rights involved _ and I
think it is universal _ people should be given the chance to defend
themselves,'' Habibie was quoted as saying in the interview conducted
Saturday. ``People should not be tortured.'' Habibie said Anwar's
dismissal should not have been based ``on things which had not been
proven.'' On attending the APEC meeting, he said, ``It's difficult
for me.'' But he said he would consult parliament, adding, ``I'm not
coming personally but as the president of 211 million people of Indonesia.''
Like Estrada, Habibie served as his country's vice president when
Anwar was deputy prime minister, making them counterparts on the international
affairs circuit.



The European Union Wednesday condemned the slaying of four foreign
hostages in Chechnya and said it would raise the issue with Russia's
foreign minister. In a statement, EU Foreign Affairs Commissioner
Hans van den Broek ``condemned in the strongest terms the senseless
killing of the four hostages.'' Van den Broek said the EU was determined
to see remaining hostages in Chechnya released unharmed. He planned
to discuss the killings with Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov,
who is in Brussels for talks at NATO. The severed heads of the hostages
_ three Britons and a New Zealander _ were found Tuesday. The men,
who were working to restore phone services in the breakaway Russian
republic, had been abducted by gunmen in October.


The New York Times said in an editorial on Saturday, Oct. 17: It is
fitting that this most memorable of baseball seasons should conclude
with a World Series that opens Saturday night in Yankee Stadium, the
aging but still grand cathedral of the sport. Bedecked in bunting
and banners, the revered ballpark always elevates the game with its
aura of history and accomplishment. That makes it the perfect venue
for part of a championship series that will determine whether the
1998 Yankees are one of the greatest teams of the modern era, or just
a talented squad that owned the regular season but folded in the World
Series. New Yorkers are a boisterous, boastful bunch, and the patter
of the city this week has been loud and arrogant, or so it must seem
to anyone venturing here from San Diego to root for the Padres. The
word on the sidewalks and in the subways is that the Padres don't
measure up against the Yankees. Sure, they have lethal starting pitchers
in Kevin Brown and Andy Ashby, and one of the game's best closers
in Trevor Hoffman, not to mention prolific hitters like Tony Gwynn
and Greg Vaughn, who is hobbling but still dangerous. But how is that
a match for the Yankees' World Series starting rotation of David Wells,
Orlando Hernandez, David Cone and Andy Pettitte, bullpen flamethrower
Mariano Rivera, plus the deepest batting order in baseball? Yet the
truth is that Yankees fans are terrified the team will crumple. Baseball
fans, even Yankee fans, can spend a lifetime waiting to see a home
team of historic caliber, and this Yankee team will not reach that
sanctified status unless it ends its record-setting season by winning
the World Series. The doubts keep creeping up. The team was pitiful
at the plate through most of the playoffs. Tino Martinez, the top
run producer, has been in a numbing slump. Bernie Williams, the American
League batting champ, hit well in the pennant series against the Cleveland
Indians, but has seemed distracted by personal matters. Shane Spencer,
the rookie slugging sensation of September, hasn't turned out to be
the new Mr. October. Pettitte has been struggling since August. The
curious thing about this team, which won more games during the regular
season than any team in American League history, is how quiet and
unobtrusive it can be. It sports no dominant superstar, no swaggering
clubhouse leader, no one who seems to belong in New York. So when
the Yankees start to drift on the field, fans tend to fear the team
might simply fade away. Until the Indians surged temporarily ahead
in the playoffs, the Yankees had faced no serious test of resiliency
all season. New Yorkers can already taste that ticker-tape parade
up Broadway. But behind every mighty cheer at the stadium Saturday
night will lurk the fear that when the curtain falls on the season,
an unheralded and unlegendary team from San Diego will be the one
that is remembered.



German police raided several locations near Bonn after receiving word
of a terrorist threat against the U.S. Embassy, but no evidence of
a planned attack was found, officials said Wednesday. Police, including
agents of an elite anti-terrorist unit, checked several suspects during
raids in an industrial zone and other sites Tuesday, but no arrests
were made, said Eva Schuebel, spokeswoman for the Federal Prosecutor's
Office in Karlsruhe. The agency said it had received ``credible information''
that Middle East terrorists had stockpiled arms and explosives at
the sites, but none were found. The agency's investigation is continuing,
Schuebel said. ``For now, we can no longer speak of an immediate threat
to the U.S. Embassy,'' she said. The embassy had no comment. Security
was tightened at U.S. installations worldwide after the Aug. 7 bombings
of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Saudi dissident Osama
Bin Laden is wanted by U.S. officials for those attacks. A suspected
top aide of bin Laden, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, is jailed in Germany
pending a U.S. extradition request, raising concern about reprisals
on German soil. U.S. authorities charge Salim helped finance, train
and arm members of a terrorist organization, including the alleged
bombers of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. In September,
German police stepped up security at the U.S. consulate in Hamburg
after receiving a tip about a possible threat.



The first part of the international space station was smoothly orbiting
Earth on Friday after a faultless launch that marked the start of
a new age in space exploration and colonization. A Russian Proton
booster rocket carried the module into its initial orbit 200 kilometers
(125 miles) above the Earth and the unit was operating as planned,
officials said. Russia's Zarya, or Sunrise, module is to fly alone
for two weeks before a rendezvous with the American space shuttle
Endeavour, which is to be launched Dec. 3 carrying the Unity connecting
module. Space officials from 16 nations taking part in the project
cheered as the rocket soared into the cloudy sky above the central
Asian steppe from the Baikonur launch pad Friday _ a year later than
planned. ``During the, pickup 4th pvs
</TEXT>
</DOC>
